README.md, before:

# Chat With the Algorithm

Ask questions about the open-sourced [Twitter algorithm](https://github.com/twitter/the-algorithm).

The app is publicly hosted here: https://chat-twitter.vercel.app/. Instructions for hosting it yourself are below.

## Basic architecture

The app is a NextJS/Tailwind CSS frontend with a FastAPI backend. The frontend is hosted on Vercel and the backend is hosted on a small node on [fly.io](https://fly.io/). The backend uses a Pinecone vector DB on the free tier. There is a Dockerfile provided.

Right now, I'm footing the OpenAI bill on the public instance. But I may require users to bring their own key in the future.

## Running locally

1. Set up environment variables

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=...
OPENAI_ORG_ID=... # organization id, found in Manage account > settings
PINECONE_API_KEY=...
PINECONE_ENV=... # default 'us-east1-gcp'
PINECONE_INDEX=... # default 'pinecone-index'
```

2. Clone the repo

```
git clone https://github.com/mtenenholtz/chat-twitter.git
cd chat-twitter
```

3. Install Node dependencies

```
npm i
```

4. Run the Node server

```
npm run dev
```

5. In another terminal, install the Python dependencies

```
# in the backend/ directory
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

6. Set up a Pinecone index. Give it a vector dimension of 1536 and name it `pinecone-index`. You can change this with the `PINECONE_INDEX` environment variable if you want.

7. Embed the Twitter codebase

```
# in the backend/ directory
python create_vector_db.py
```

8. Run the backend server

```
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

9. The URL for the backend is currently hard coded to the live server URL. You will have to change this to localhost or your other server name.

## Potential improvements

I will continue development on this project as demand exists. But, if I abandon it, here are some ideas:

- The dependency on Pinecone could be removed and replaced with a simple NumPy array. I just wanted to try Pinecone.
- Replace the `chat_stream` endpoint with a websocket implementation.
- Ask the model not to generatively reference its sources. Instead, simply copy the code snippet directly.
- The splitter could be improved. Right now, it's a character splitter that favors newlines, but OpenAI has implemented a similar one that splits on tokens instead.
- The embeddings and retrieval mechanisms could account for the hierarchy of the Algorithm's code structure, like Replit's Ghostwriter does.
- The UI could be improved **a lot**. I suck at JS.

Commit message:

Use nextjs public environment to specify backend server details

README.md, after:

# Chat With the Algorithm

Ask questions about the open-sourced [Twitter algorithm](https://github.com/twitter/the-algorithm).

The app is publicly hosted here: https://chat-twitter.vercel.app/. Instructions for hosting it yourself are below.

## Basic architecture

The app is a NextJS/Tailwind CSS frontend with a FastAPI backend. The frontend is hosted on Vercel and the backend is hosted on a small node on [fly.io](https://fly.io/). The backend uses a Pinecone vector DB on the free tier. There is a Dockerfile provided.

Right now, I'm footing the OpenAI bill on the public instance. But I may require users to bring their own key in the future.

## Running locally

1. Set up environment variables

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=...
OPENAI_ORG_ID=... # organization id, found in Manage account > settings
PINECONE_API_KEY=...
PINECONE_ENV=... # default 'us-east1-gcp'
PINECONE_INDEX=... # default 'pinecone-index'
```

2. Clone the repo

```
git clone https://github.com/mtenenholtz/chat-twitter.git
cd chat-twitter
```

3. Install Node dependencies

```
npm i
```

4. Run the Node server

```
npm run dev
```

5. In another terminal, install the Python dependencies

```
# in the backend/ directory
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

6. Set up a Pinecone index. Give it a vector dimension of 1536 and name it `pinecone-index`. You can change this with the `PINECONE_INDEX` environment variable if you want.

7. Embed the Twitter codebase

```
# in the backend/ directory
python create_vector_db.py
```

8. Run the backend server

```
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

9. The URL for the backend is constructed from the environment variables in `.env.local`. Use the `env-example.local` file as an example.

## Potential improvements

I will continue development on this project as demand exists. But, if I abandon it, here are some ideas:

- The dependency on Pinecone could be removed and replaced with a simple NumPy array. I just wanted to try Pinecone.
- Replace the `chat_stream` endpoint with a websocket implementation.
- Ask the model not to generatively reference its sources. Instead, simply copy the code snippet directly.
- The splitter could be improved. Right now, it's a character splitter that favors newlines, but OpenAI has implemented a similar one that splits on tokens instead.
- The embeddings and retrieval mechanisms could account for the hierarchy of the Algorithm's code structure, like Replit's Ghostwriter does.
- The UI could be improved **a lot**. I suck at JS.
